TCP AND UDP Ports

    Open: indicates that a service is listening on the specified port.
    Closed: indicates that no service is listening on the specified port, although the port is accessible. By accessible, we mean that it is reachable and is not blocked by a firewall or other security appliances/programs.
    Filtered: means that Nmap cannot determine if the port is open or closed because the port is not accessible. This state is usually due to a firewall preventing Nmap from reaching that port. Nmap’s packets may be blocked from reaching the port; 
              alternatively, the responses are blocked from reaching Nmap’s host.
    Unfiltered: means that Nmap cannot determine if the port is open or closed, although the port is accessible. This state is encountered when using an ACK scan -sA.
    Open|Filtered: This means that Nmap cannot determine whether the port is open or filtered.
    Closed|Filtered: This means that Nmap cannot decide whether a port is closed or filtered.



TCP header flags:

    URG: Urgent flag indicates that the urgent pointer filed is significant. The urgent pointer indicates that the incoming data is urgent, and that a TCP segment with the URG flag set is processed immediately without consideration of having to wait on 
         previously sent TCP segments.
    ACK: Acknowledgement flag indicates that the acknowledgement number is significant. It is used to acknowledge the receipt of a TCP segment.
    PSH: Push flag asking TCP to pass the data to the application promptly.
    RST: Reset flag is used to reset the connection. Another device, such as a firewall, might send it to tear a TCP connection. This flag is also used when data is sent to a host and there is no service on the receiving end to answer.
    SYN: Synchronize flag is used to initiate a TCP 3-way handshake and synchronize sequence numbers with the other host. The sequence number should be set randomly during TCP connection establishment.
    FIN: The sender has no more data to send.




TCP connect scan

TCP connect scan works by completing the TCP 3-way handshake. In standard TCP connection establishment, the client sends a TCP packet with SYN flag set, and the server responds with SYN/ACK if the port is open
Command: -sT

It is important to note that if you are not a privileged user (root or sudoer), a TCP connect scan is the only possible option to discover open TCP ports.
A closed TCP port responds to a SYN packet with RST/ACK to indicate that it is not open.
If it replied with a SYN/ACK the port is open.

We can use -F to enable fast mode and decrease the number of scanned ports from 1000 to 100 most common ports.
The -r option can also be added to scan the ports in consecutive order instead of random order.




TCP SYN Scan

Unprivileged users are limited to connect scan. However, the default scan mode is SYN scan, and it requires a privileged (root or sudoer) user to run it. 
SYN scan does not need to complete the TCP 3-way handshake; instead, it tears down the connection once it receives a response from the server. 
Because we didn’t establish a TCP connection, this decreases the chances of the scan being logged.
Command: -sS

Open port: Target replies with SYN-ACK → Nmap responds with RST
Closed port: Target replies with RST.
Filtered port: No response or ICMP unreachable message → may be blocked by a firewall.




UDP Scan

If a UDP packet is sent to a closed port, an ICMP port unreachable error (type 3, code 3) is returned.
Command: -sU

If we send a UDP packet to an open UDP port, we cannot expect any reply in return. Therefore, sending a UDP packet to an open port won’t tell us anything.
The UDP ports that don’t generate any response are the ones that Nmap will state as open.





Fine-tuning and Performance

port list: -p22,80,443 will scan ports 22, 80 and 443.

port range: -p1-1023 will scan all ports between 1 and 1023 inclusive, while -p20-25 will scan ports between 20 and 25 inclusive.

You can request the scan of all ports by using -p-, which will scan all 65535 ports.

If you want to scan the most common 100 ports, add -F. Using --top-ports 10 will check the ten most common ports.

You can control the scan timing using -T<0-5>. -T0 is the slowest (paranoid), while -T5 (insane) is the fastest.

To avoid IDS alerts, you might consider -T0 or -T1. For instance, -T0 scans one port at a time and waits 5 minutes between sending each probe

Nmap uses normal -T3

-T4 is often used during CTFs and when learning to scan on practice targets, whereas -T1 is often used during real engagements where stealth is more important.

Alternatively, you can choose to control the packet rate using --min-rate <number> and --max-rate <number>. For example, --max-rate 10 or --max-rate=10 ensures that your scanner is not sending more than ten packets per second. 

Moreover, you can control probing parallelization using --min-parallelism <numprobes> and --max-parallelism <numprobes>. Nmap probes the targets to discover which hosts are live and which ports are open; 
probing parallelization specifies the number of such probes that can be run in parallel. For instance, --min-parallelism=512 pushes Nmap to maintain at least 512 probes in parallel; these 512 probes are related to host discovery and open ports.





















